AIM:
Simulate a three-node point-to-point network with a duplex link between them. Set the queue size
and vary the bandwidth and find the number of packets dropped.
Sender:- stcp –p 2000 –l 1024 1.0.1.2
Receiver:- rtcp –p 2000 –l 1024
Parameters:- Drop Packets and Collision Packets.
Step1: Drawing topology
1. Select/click the HOST icon on the toolbar and click the left mouse button on the editor, to place
a HOST1 on the editor. Repeat the above procedure and place another host “HOST2” on the
editor.
2. Select/click the HUB icon on the toolbar and click the left mouse button on the editor, to place
HUB1 on the editor.
3. Click on the LINK icon on the toolbar and connect HOST1 to HUB1 and HUB1 to HOST2
4. Click on the “E” icon on the toolbar to save the current topology
e.g: file1.tpl (Look for the ******.tpl extension.)
NOTE: Changes cannot / (should not) be done after selecting the “E” icon
Step2: Configuration
1. Double click the left mouse button while cursor is on HOST1 to open the HOST window.
2. Select Add button on the HOST window to invoke the command window and provide the
following command in the command textbox.
stg –u 1024 100 1.0.1.2
3. Click OK button on the command window to exit and once again click on the OK button on the
HOST window to exit.
4. Double click the left mouse button while cursor is on HOST2 to open the HOST window.
5. Select Add button on the HOST window to invoke the command window and provide the
following command in the command textbox.
rtg –u –w log1
6. Click OK button on the command window to exit.
7. Click NODE EDITOR Button on the HOST window and select the MAC tab from the modal
window that pops up.
8. Select LOG STATISTICS and select checkboxes for Number of Drop Packet and Number of
Collisions in the MAC window
9. Click OK button on the MAC window to exit and once again click on the OK button on the
HOST window to exit.
Note: To set QUEUE size
1. Double click the left mouse button while cursor is on HOST2 to open the HOST window.
2. Click NODE EDITOR Button on the HOST window and select the FIFO tab from the modal
window that pops up.
3. Change Queue size (Default 50).
4. Click OK button on the FIFO window to exit and once again click on the OK button on the
HOST window to exit.
Step3: Simulate
i. Click “R” icon on the tool bar
ii. Select Simulation in the menu bar and click/ select RUN in the dropdown list to execute the
simulation.
iii. venTo start playback select “►” icon located at the bottom right corner of the editor.
iv. To view results, Open up new TERMINAL window, move to file1.results folder and open
collision and drop log files in separate TERMINAL window.
Caution: file1 is the hypothetical name given to this simulation.
(Refer Step 1.4)
Changing configurations
Change 1
1. Open the above file,
2. Do not change the topology or any other configuration,
3. Select E icon on the toolbar
4. Reduce the bandwidth at link2 by double clicking the left mouse button while cursor is on
link2 .(Change bandwidth on both tabs Uplink/Downlink)
5. Repeat Step3 (Simulate)
Change 2
1. Open the above file,
2. Remove HUB and replace it with SWITCH.
3. Do not change anything in the configuration
Repeat Step3(Simulate)
